To automatically logout when the token expires, you can go back to the auth.dart file here and in there,
let's add a new method and I'll name it auto logout.
The goal here is to basically set a timer which will expire when the token expires and then to call
logout for us. So for this, we need to set a timer.
Timers are baked into Dart,
we just need to import a specific Dart library and that's the dart:async library.
It helps us with async code and gives us tools to run code asynchronously and one such tool is setting
a timer which allows us to run some code in the future when the timer expired.
So in here, I want to set a timer and I can now do this with the timer class which is made available by that
just imported dart:async library, instantiate a timer and the timer takes a duration that configures
when it should expire.
Now that duration can be set in seconds and the seconds of course should be the difference between expiry
date and current date or expiry time and current time.
So here, I'll take my expiry date and now we can use the difference method to calculate a difference
and I want to have the difference to now and I want to have that difference in seconds which conveniently
is a property I have available on the difference result.
So Dart really gives you a lot of helpers there,
the difference method in seconds and then I'll store this in a variable, timeToExpiry.
So this is the timeToExpiry in seconds because difference gives us the difference between two timestamps.
Now we can pass this timeToExpiry here as a value
and if you want to learn more about all the available methods, of course just typing a dot gives you
this auto completion, the official docs on the datetime object are a great place to go
and as always, just control or command clicking on this here also gets you into the code and lets you
learn what is available and so on. Now setting the duration is one thing,
the other thing is that we need to configure what should happen when this expired because the timer
takes two arguments - the duration and then a function that should be executed
when this timer is done and this is a function that takes no arguments and doesn't return anything. Now here,
I want to point that my logout function, logout should be triggered when a timer expires. Now that's a
simple setup
but we also need to manage that timer,
for example I want to make sure that if we already have an ongoing timer for some reason, I cancel the
old timer before we set a new one
and in logout, I also want to make sure that we cancel any ongoing timers in case the user chose logout
in the drawer.
So we need to manage the timer here in the auth class
and for that, I'll add a new property here at the top of type timer and that's my authTimer.
Now we can use that timer here at the bottom to store the timer we're creating here in it,
so here we're storing the authTimer and that allows me to first of all check whether we have an authTimer
before we do anything.
So if we have an authTimer here,
so if it's not null,
so we already have an existing timer,
then I want to call cancel on that existing timer before I set a new one,
now that's just a tiny thing, cancel existing timers if available. Now in logout,
I of course also want to cancel existing timers because logout is not just called by the timer which
of course will be done when it's called but also when the user chooses logout in the drawer
and in such case, an ongoing timer should be cancelled.
So here I'll check if authTimer is not equal to null
and if it is not equal to null, I'll set authTimer or I'll call authTimer.cancel and thereafter, I'll
set authTimer to null.
So now we have an authTimer and we manage that and to see whether it works, let's temporarily set a duration
of only let's say three seconds here, so that we can see if we really are logged out automatically when
this expires.
However for that of course, we need to make sure that auto logout is called. The place to call it is
of course the place where we actually login.
So here in authenticate, I do in the end set my token expiry date and then notify listeners, here
I also want to call auto logout because this is where the user is officially treated as logged in,
that is where I want to set my timer of course.
So now let's save this and because I hardcoded a value of three seconds here,
we should now see that when I login, I should automatically logout after three seconds without me doing
anything.
So let's login and then wait for three seconds,
yes
we're back to the screen here.
So this seems to work
and with that, let's actually go back to the real timeToExpiry down there.
So that's auto logout,
very important.
Now let's work on auto login so that when the user is logged in, closes the app and comes back later,
we automatically log the user in.